---
author: jaruizes
layout: post
title: "Jarc-mazon: my side project"
date: 2018-04-24 19:00
category : DigitalTransformation
comments: false
tags:
 - Digital Transformation
 - Microservices
---

During this year I’ve been thinking about a side-project in order to learn and practice everything new (or not so new) about building software but, I’m not very creative...
Today while I was making an order in Amazon, I remembered that my bachelor thesis was about a store like "Interflora" and I decided that I don’t need more: I’ll try to build
my particular ecommerce site: “Jarc-mazon”. This isn't about building something "productive" because I do not really know ecommerce bussines and I don't want to create a
start-up or fight against Amazon...

Building something perfect or building fast is not the idea. The idea is building something iteratively, trying things, making mistakes and learning.
I would like to put into the scene everything that sounds currently (methodology and technology):

- Architectures: microservices, microfrontends, CQRS, EDA, Kafka,...,etc (with theirs patterns, languages, tools, and frameworks)
- CI / CD: methodologies, tools,...,etc...
- ChatBots: conversational UIs
- Big Data, Real time and Analytics: Kafka, Spark, Cassandra, etc...
- Platform: Docker, Kubernetes, Openshift, AWS, GCP, Azure, infrastructure as a code, Terraform, Ansible...,etc
- Logging and Monitoring: Prometheus, Grafana, ELK,...,etc

It can be very ambitious but I have no deadlines and I don't want to set them. Therefore I can not guess when I'm going to finish or even, if there will be an end.
The idea is building something alive and evolving it.


## Where do I start?

I would like to start programming from now but I think it's not going to be the right way. I'm going to do things well, as Architects do.

The first step is knowing WHAT "Jarc-mazon" will be, that means what "my problem" is: organization, requirements, domains, actions, events, data, etc...

Once I know what "Jarc-mazon" will be, I'll think how to do it in a conceptual and logical view (HOW). This is important because it'll give a high level view of my system and its components and,
from this view, I'll be able to assign technologies, languages, tools,...,etc to each component.

From the logical view, the idea is being able to test different technologies for the most of components. It means to generate several physical views (WITH WHAT).

Beside that, the other important things to take into account are setting up the CI/CD or execution platforms. As the same as the components, the idea is being able to test several tools.

## What is Jarc-mazon?
Jarc-mazon is an online store with the following properties:

- Customers: Jarc-mazon needs customers to offer products and one of the main principles of Jar-mazon is providing the best service to its customers. The basic operations in this area are:
    * Create, Update and Remove users
    * Manage campaigns
    * Manage channels

- Products: what is Jarc-mazon going to sell? There will be a catalog with products and it's necessary to maintain this catalog: create, update and remove products. This department is
responsible for:
    * Manage the catalog
    * Manage the stock: make previsions about customers needs and products more demanded depending on season, location, history, etc...
    * Set the prices and manage the margin
    * Manage vendors


- Warehouse: this department is responsible for:
    * Managing orders
    * Update the stock


- Control: this department is responsible for:
    * Statistics
    * Finance
